Many years ago there lived a little boy whose name was Antonio Canova .
He lived with his grandfather because his own father was dead . 
His grandfather was a stonecutter and he was very poor . 
Antonio was a puny lad and not strong enough to work . 
He did not care to play with the other boys of the town . 
But he liked to go with his grandfather to the stoneyard . 
While the old man was busy cutting and trimming the great blocks of stone , the lad would play among the chips . 
Sometimes he would make a little statue of soft clay . 
Sometimes he would take hammer and chisel and try to cut a statue from a piece of rock . 
He showed so much skill that his grandfather was delighted . 
The boy will be a sculptor some day . 
Then when they went home in the evening . 
What have you been doing today ?
She would take him upon her lap and sing to him . 
She would tell him stories that filled his mind with pictures of wonderful and beautiful things . 
The next day , when he went back to the stoneyard , he would try to make some of those pictures in stone or clay . 
There lived in the same town a rich man who was called the Count . 
Sometimes the Count would have a grand dinner .
His rich friends from other towns would come to visit him . 
His grandfather would go up to the house to help with the work in the kitchen . 
It happened one day that Antonio went with his grandfather to the Count his great house . 
Some people from the city were coming and there was to be a grand feast . 
The boy could not cook . 
He was not old enough to wait on the table but he could wash the pans and kettles . 
He was smart and quick and he could help in many other ways . 
All went well until it was time to spread the table for dinner . 
There was a crash in the dining room .
a man rushed into the kitchen with some pieces of marble in his hands . 
He was pale and trembling with fright . 
What shall I do ? 
I have broken the statue that was to stand at the center of the table . 
I can not make the table look pretty without the statue . 
What will the Count say ?
Now all the other servants were in trouble . 
Was the dinner to be a failure after all ? 
For everything depended on having the table nicely arranged . 
The Count would be very angry . 
What shall we do ?
Then little Antonio Canova left his pans and went up to the man who had caused the trouble . 
If you had another statue , could you arrange the table ? 
Certainly if the statue were of the right length and height .
Will you let me try to make one ?
Perhaps I can make something that will do .
The man laughed . 
Nonsense !
Who are you that you talk of making statues on short notice ?
I am Antonio Canova . 
Let the boy try what he can do . 
Since nothing else could be done , the man allowed him to try . 
On the kitchen table there was a large square lump of yellow butter . 
Two hundred pounds the lump weighed.
It had just come in fresh and clean from the dairy on the mountain . 
With a kitchen knife in his hand Antonio began to cut and carve this butter . 
In a few minutes he had molded it into the shape of a crouching lion .
All the servants crowded around to see it . 
How beautiful !
It is a great deal prettier than the statue that was broken .
When it was finished , the man carried it to its place . 
The table will be handsomer by half than I ever hoped to make it . 
When the Count and his friends came in to dinner , the first thing they saw was the yellow lion . 
What a beautiful work of art ! 
None but a very great artist could ever carve such a figure . 
How odd that he should choose to make it of butter !
Then they asked the Count to tell them the name of the artist . 
This is as much of a surprise to me as to you .
Then he called to his head servant and asked him where he had found so wonderful a statue . 
It was carved only an hour ago by a little boy in the kitchen . 
This made the Count his friends wonder still more . 
The Count bade the servant call the boy into the room . 
You have done a piece of work of which the greatest artists would be proud . 
What is your name and who is your teacher ?
My name is Antonio Canova and I have had no teacher but my grandfather the stonecutter .
By this time all the guests had crowded around Antonio . 
There were famous artists among them and they knew that the lad was a genius . 
They could not say enough in praise of his work .
When at last they sat down at the table , nothing would please them but that Antonio should have a seat with them .
The dinner was made a feast in his honor . 
The very next day the Count sent for Antonio to come and live with him . 
The best artists in the land were employed to teach him the art in which he had shown so much skill .
Instead of carving butter , he now chiseled marble . 
In a few years Antonio Canova became known as one of the greatest sculptors in the world .
