Then little Antonio Canova left his pans and went up to the man who had caused the trouble . 
If you had another statue , could you arrange the table ? 
Certainly if the statue were of the right length and height .
Will you let me try to make one ?
Perhaps I can make something that will do .
The man laughed . 
Nonsense !
Who are you that you talk of making statues on short notice ?
I am Antonio Canova . 
Let the boy try what he can do . 
Since nothing else could be done , the man allowed him to try . 
On the kitchen table there was a large square lump of yellow butter . 
Two hundred pounds the lump weighed.
It had just come in fresh and clean from the dairy on the mountain . 
With a kitchen knife in his hand Antonio began to cut and carve this butter . 
In a few minutes he had molded it into the shape of a crouching lion .
All the servants crowded around to see it . 
How beautiful !
It is a great deal prettier than the statue that was broken .
When it was finished , the man carried it to its place . 
The table will be handsomer by half than I ever hoped to make it . 
When the Count and his friends came in to dinner , the first thing they saw was the yellow lion . 
What a beautiful work of art ! 
None but a very great artist could ever carve such a figure . 
How odd that he should choose to make it of butter !
Then they asked the Count to tell them the name of the artist . 
This is as much of a surprise to me as to you .
Then he called to his head servant and asked him where he had found so wonderful a statue . 
It was carved only an hour ago by a little boy in the kitchen . 
This made the Count his friends wonder still more . 
The Count bade the servant call the boy into the room . 
You have done a piece of work of which the greatest artists would be proud . 
What is your name and who is your teacher ?
My name is Antonio Canova and I have had no teacher but my grandfather the stonecutter .
By this time all the guests had crowded around Antonio . 
There were famous artists among them and they knew that the lad was a genius . 
They could not say enough in praise of his work .
When at last they sat down at the table , nothing would please them but that Antonio should have a seat with them .
The dinner was made a feast in his honor . 
The very next day the Count sent for Antonio to come and live with him . 
The best artists in the land were employed to teach him the art in which he had shown so much skill .
Instead of carving butter , he now chiseled marble . 
In a few years Antonio Canova became known as one of the greatest sculptors in the world .
